Openshift cluster scaling considerations (#426)
UKCloud/documentation: articles/openshift/oshift-scaling-references.md

These applications run their components on the infrastructure nodes (these are the nodes with the naming convention worker-infra) your cluster comes out of the box with 2 of these nodes and each has 16GB of memory and 2 vCPUs. This is a perfectly reasonable amount of resource for the infrastructure components for a small cluster running light development workloads. If you are looking to scale out the cluster to a larger size and start running more intensive applications or builds these nodes may not be enough. For example, the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This will result in significantly higher resource usage. In the same vein, the more pods and nodes are running in your environment the more stats hawkular metrics will be gathering and storing in the Cassandra database.

#### Recommendations

> It's recommended by us to have a minimum of 3 infrastructure nodes with a deployment, especially with v3.11 deployments onwards as there are now more infrastructure components. As well as having more resource available to the infrastructure applications, running your infrastructure nodes at a scale of 3 or more will give you increased resilience for these components during patching as the applications will be able to scale up on the 2 available nodes while the 3rd is being patched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'd recommend having a minimum of 3 infrastructure nodes with a production deployment where you expect to make use of these additional services, especially with v3.11 deployments onwards as there are now more infrastructure components. As well as having more resource available to the infrastructure applications, running your infrastructure nodes at a scale of 3 or more will give you increased resilience for these components during patching as the applications will be able to scale up on the 2 available nodes while the 3rd is being patched.

Additionally scaling of the infrastructure applications to make them more resilient is possible but may require additional infrastructure nodes to be deployed. For example to scale Elasticsearch to three nodes/containers we recommend having a minimum of 4 infrastructure nodes. In order to have these applications scaled up or down raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal.
```

### Planning your scale out

You'll want to estimate how many pods you are expecting to fit on a node. Things to take into account are the CPU, memory and storage (If your pod is going to be writing to the local filesystem rather than persistent storage) requirements of your applications. This will give you an idea of the size and amount of nodes you will need. More information regarding planning for application requirements can be found here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/scaling_performance/cluster_limits.html#scaling-performance-planning-your-environment-according-to-application-requirements

### Scaling

> If you would like to scale up your cluster raise a Servcice Request via the portal and provide us with the size, amount and network connectivity of the nodes you would like. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you would like to scale up your cluster raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal and provide us with the size, network connectivity and quantity of nodes you would like to add. The same process should be followed to scale a cluster down, this time providing the details of the node(s) you wish to remove.
```

---

> title: Considerations When Scaling an OpenShift Cluster | UKCloud Ltd

Reviewer 2: Change capitalisation a bit:
Considerations when scaling an OpenShift cluster

> description: Gives information on things to consider when scaling a cluster

Reviewer 2: Provides information ...

services: openshift
author: Kieran O'Neill

> toc_rootlink: References

Reviewer 2: Reference (no s at the end)

toc_sub1: 
toc_sub2:
toc_sub3:
toc_sub4:

> toc_title: Considerations When Scaling an OpenShift Cluster

Reviewer 2: Same change to capitalisation:
Considerations when scaling an OpenShift cluster

> toc_fullpath: References/oshift-scaling-references.md

Reviewer 2: Reference (no s at the end)

> toc_fullpath: References/oshift-scaling-references.md

Reviewer 2: Filename should be:
oshift-ref-scaling.md

> toc_mdlink: oshift-scaling-references.md

Reviewer 2: Filename needs changing here too:
oshift-ref-scaling.md

> toc_mdlink: oshift-scaling-references.md

Reviewer 2: And don't forget to change the actual file name!

---

> # Considerations When Scaling an OpenShift Cluster

Reviewer 2: Same change to capitalisation:
Considerations when scaling an OpenShift cluster

### Infrastructure applications

> With your UKCloud for OpenShift cluster we deploy a number of infrastructure applications by default. These are quality of life features that are intended to help you with the administration, management and application development within your cluster. Examples are the EFK stack, Hawkular Metrics, the integrated registry, the service catalog and; with v3.11 deployments onwards, Prometheus and Grafana.

Reviewer 2: Is quality of life services a recognised term in this context? Seems like quality of service might be more appropriate (unless this has specific connotations)

> With your UKCloud for OpenShift cluster we deploy a number of infrastructure applications by default. These are quality of life features that are intended to help you with the administration, management and application development within your cluster. Examples are the EFK stack, Hawkular Metrics, the integrated registry, the service catalog and; with v3.11 deployments onwards, Prometheus and Grafana.

Reviewer 2: Examples include ...

> With your UKCloud for OpenShift cluster we deploy a number of infrastructure applications by default. These are quality of life features that are intended to help you with the administration, management and application development within your cluster. Examples are the EFK stack, Hawkular Metrics, the integrated registry, the service catalog and; with v3.11 deployments onwards, Prometheus and Grafana.

Reviewer 2: Use a comma instead of a semicolon. The rule is that you use semicolons to separate items in a list if any of the items include commas, so technically it should be the following (but I don't think it's really necessary):

Examples include EFK stack; Hawkular Metrics; the integrated registry; the service catalog and, with v3.11 deployments onwards, Prometheus and Grafana.

> These applications run their components on the infrastructure nodes (these are the nodes with the naming convention worker-infra) your cluster comes out of the box with 2 of these nodes and each has 16GB of memory and 2 vCPUs. This is a perfectly reasonable amount of resource for the infrastructure components for a small cluster running light development workloads. If you are looking to scale out the cluster to a larger size and start running more intensive applications or builds these nodes may not be enough. For example, the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This will result in significantly higher resource usage. In the same vein, the more pods and nodes are running in your environment the more stats hawkular metrics will be gathering and storing in the Cassandra database.

Reviewer 2: Break the first sentence into two separate sentences:
These applications run their components on the infrastructure nodes (these are the nodes with the naming convention `worker-infra`). Your cluster comes out of the box with two of these nodes and each has 16GB of memory and two vCPUs.

> These applications run their components on the infrastructure nodes (these are the nodes with the naming convention worker-infra) your cluster comes out of the box with 2 of these nodes and each has 16GB of memory and 2 vCPUs. This is a perfectly reasonable amount of resource for the infrastructure components for a small cluster running light development workloads. If you are looking to scale out the cluster to a larger size and start running more intensive applications or builds these nodes may not be enough. For example, the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This will result in significantly higher resource usage. In the same vein, the more pods and nodes are running in your environment the more stats hawkular metrics will be gathering and storing in the Cassandra database.

Reviewer 2: Use two instead of 2

> These applications run their components on the infrastructure nodes (these are the nodes with the naming convention worker-infra) your cluster comes out of the box with 2 of these nodes and each has 16GB of memory and 2 vCPUs. This is a perfectly reasonable amount of resource for the infrastructure components for a small cluster running light development workloads. If you are looking to scale out the cluster to a larger size and start running more intensive applications or builds these nodes may not be enough. For example, the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This will result in significantly higher resource usage. In the same vein, the more pods and nodes are running in your environment the more stats hawkular metrics will be gathering and storing in the Cassandra database.

Reviewer 2: Change you are to you're

> These applications run their components on the infrastructure nodes (these are the nodes with the naming convention worker-infra) your cluster comes out of the box with 2 of these nodes and each has 16GB of memory and 2 vCPUs. This is a perfectly reasonable amount of resource for the infrastructure components for a small cluster running light development workloads. If you are looking to scale out the cluster to a larger size and start running more intensive applications or builds these nodes may not be enough. For example, the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This will result in significantly higher resource usage. In the same vein, the more pods and nodes are running in your environment the more stats hawkular metrics will be gathering and storing in the Cassandra database.

Reviewer 2: I think you need some extra commas in the last few sentences here:

If you're looking to scale out the cluster to a larger size and start running more intensive applications or builds, these nodes may not be enough. For example, the more applications and nodes you have in your environment, the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This will result in significantly higher resource usage. In the same vein, the more pods and nodes are running in your environment, the more stats hawkular metrics will be gathering and storing in the Cassandra database.

#### Recommendations

> We'd recommend having a minimum of 3 infrastructure nodes with a production deployment where you expect to make use of these additional services, especially with v3.11 deployments onwards as there are now more infrastructure components. As well as having more resource available to the infrastructure applications, running your infrastructure nodes at a scale of 3 or more will give you increased resilience for these components during patching as the applications will be able to scale up on the 2 available nodes while the 3rd is being patched.

Reviewer 2: We recommend

> We'd recommend having a minimum of 3 infrastructure nodes with a production deployment where you expect to make use of these additional services, especially with v3.11 deployments onwards as there are now more infrastructure components. As well as having more resource available to the infrastructure applications, running your infrastructure nodes at a scale of 3 or more will give you increased resilience for these components during patching as the applications will be able to scale up on the 2 available nodes while the 3rd is being patched.

Reviewer 2: three instead of 3

> Additionally scaling of the infrastructure applications to make them more resilient is possible but may require additional infrastructure nodes to be deployed. For example to scale Elasticsearch to three nodes/containers we recommend having a minimum of 4 infrastructure nodes. In order to have these applications scaled up or down raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal.

Reviewer 2: comma after Additionally

> Additionally scaling of the infrastructure applications to make them more resilient is possible but may require additional infrastructure nodes to be deployed. For example to scale Elasticsearch to three nodes/containers we recommend having a minimum of 4 infrastructure nodes. In order to have these applications scaled up or down raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal.

Reviewer 2: four instead of 4

> Additionally scaling of the infrastructure applications to make them more resilient is possible but may require additional infrastructure nodes to be deployed. For example to scale Elasticsearch to three nodes/containers we recommend having a minimum of 4 infrastructure nodes. In order to have these applications scaled up or down raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal.

Reviewer 2: Suggest changing the last sentence to:
To scale these applications up or down, raise a Service Request via the UKCloud Portal.

Reviewer 2: Changed "In order to" to simply "To"

> Finally you will want to consider the storage usage of the infrastructure applications. As previously mentioned: the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This means the persistent volume used by Elasticsearch will have more data to store. By default, we provide 14 days retention and a 20GB persistent volume with Elasticsearch. If this volume fills to 100% then the EFK stack will not work until indices are deleted or more space is provided. If you are relying on the EFK stack for your logs then you will want to determine an average of how much storage your cluster is consuming on logs per day and request an increase of the persistent volume to fit your desired retention.

Reviewer 2: comma after Finally

> Finally you will want to consider the storage usage of the infrastructure applications. As previously mentioned: the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This means the persistent volume used by Elasticsearch will have more data to store. By default, we provide 14 days retention and a 20GB persistent volume with Elasticsearch. If this volume fills to 100% then the EFK stack will not work until indices are deleted or more space is provided. If you are relying on the EFK stack for your logs then you will want to determine an average of how much storage your cluster is consuming on logs per day and request an increase of the persistent volume to fit your desired retention.

Reviewer 2: change you will to you'll

> Finally you will want to consider the storage usage of the infrastructure applications. As previously mentioned: the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This means the persistent volume used by Elasticsearch will have more data to store. By default, we provide 14 days retention and a 20GB persistent volume with Elasticsearch. If this volume fills to 100% then the EFK stack will not work until indices are deleted or more space is provided. If you are relying on the EFK stack for your logs then you will want to determine an average of how much storage your cluster is consuming on logs per day and request an increase of the persistent volume to fit your desired retention.

Reviewer 2: colon is not necessary here - comma is fine

> Finally you will want to consider the storage usage of the infrastructure applications. As previously mentioned: the more applications and nodes you have in your environment the more logs will be gathered off the nodes by fluentd and sent off to Elasticsearch for indexing. This means the persistent volume used by Elasticsearch will have more data to store. By default, we provide 14 days retention and a 20GB persistent volume with Elasticsearch. If this volume fills to 100% then the EFK stack will not work until indices are deleted or more space is provided. If you are relying on the EFK stack for your logs then you will want to determine an average of how much storage your cluster is consuming on logs per day and request an increase of the persistent volume to fit your desired retention.

Reviewer 2: change you are to you're and and you will to you'll

### Planning your scale out

> You'll want to estimate how many pods you are expecting to fit on a node. Things to take into account are the CPU, memory and storage (If your pod is going to be writing to the local filesystem rather than persistent storage) requirements of your applications. This will give you an idea of the size and amount of nodes you will need. More information regarding planning for application requirements can be found here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/scaling_performance/cluster_limits.html#scaling-performance-planning-your-environment-according-to-application-requirements

Reviewer 2: lowercase i for if

> You'll want to estimate how many pods you are expecting to fit on a node. Things to take into account are the CPU, memory and storage (If your pod is going to be writing to the local filesystem rather than persistent storage) requirements of your applications. This will give you an idea of the size and amount of nodes you will need. More information regarding planning for application requirements can be found here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/scaling_performance/cluster_limits.html#scaling-performance-planning-your-environment-according-to-application-requirements

Reviewer 2: file system should be two words

> You'll want to estimate how many pods you are expecting to fit on a node. Things to take into account are the CPU, memory and storage (If your pod is going to be writing to the local filesystem rather than persistent storage) requirements of your applications. This will give you an idea of the size and amount of nodes you will need. More information regarding planning for application requirements can be found here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/scaling_performance/cluster_limits.html#scaling-performance-planning-your-environment-according-to-application-requirements

Reviewer 2: Change you will to you'll

> You'll want to estimate how many pods you are expecting to fit on a node. Things to take into account are the CPU, memory and storage (If your pod is going to be writing to the local filesystem rather than persistent storage) requirements of your applications. This will give you an idea of the size and amount of nodes you will need. More information regarding planning for application requirements can be found here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/3.11/scaling_performance/cluster_limits.html#scaling-performance-planning-your-environment-according-to-application-requirements

Reviewer 2: Change the last sentence to:
For more information regarding planning for application requirements can be found, see the following OpenShift article:

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I left some extra words in there. Changed to:
For more information regarding planning for application requirements, see the following OpenShift documentation page:

### Scaling

> If you would like to scale up your cluster raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal and provide us with the size, network connectivity and quantity of nodes you would like to add. The same process should be followed to scale a cluster down, this time providing the details of the node(s) you wish to remove.

Reviewer 2: Change you would to you'd

> If you would like to scale up your cluster raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal and provide us with the size, network connectivity and quantity of nodes you would like to add. The same process should be followed to scale a cluster down, this time providing the details of the node(s) you wish to remove.

Reviewer 2: Add a comma after cluster:
If you'd like to scale up your cluster, raise a Service Request...

Reviewer 2: Fixed

> If you would like to scale up your cluster raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal and provide us with the size, network connectivity and quantity of nodes you would like to add. The same process should be followed to scale a cluster down, this time providing the details of the node(s) you wish to remove.

Reviewer 2: uppercase P for Portal

> If you would like to scale up your cluster raise a Service Request via the UKCloud portal and provide us with the size, network connectivity and quantity of nodes you would like to add. The same process should be followed to scale a cluster down, this time providing the details of the node(s) you wish to remove.

Reviewer 2: Change wish to want:
... providing the details of the node(s) you want to remove.

> [!NOTE]
> The network connectivity you request for the scaled up nodes must be present in the cluster.

> ### Further Reading

Reviewer 2: change to Further information

Reviewer 2: Changed uppercase I to lowercase

> Below are some documentation pages regarding scaling of a cluster:

Reviewer 2: Below are some OpenShift documentation pages ...
